# @api3/operations

> A package that houses data and utilities required for API3 operations

## Branches and versioning

`main` represents the current state of the system. Deprecated versions are housed in individual branches. Deprecated
versions that are still supported are:

- `v0.1`: RrpBeaconServer-based Beacons

## Updates

1. Create new branch with the updates
2. Open PR to `main` (or to a deprecated version branch)
3. Have changes approved by reviewers
4. Apply changes if needed, e.g., have an API provider redeploy
5. Merge PR immediately after step 4

If an update has moved on to step 4, block all other updates from doing so until the PR is merged. This is to prevent
parallel updates from overwriting each other's changes.

---

## Utilities

This repository contains utilities for generating and integrating new APIs in the form of interactive CLI applications.
You can see the instructions for these [here](./utilities).

---

## Directory and file structure

### `/data`

Static data that other applications (e.g., monitoring and visualization services) may need to know about, including:

- Chain integrations
- API integrations
  - OIS
  - Deployment files
- Templates
- Beacons

#### Documentation

`/data/documentation.json`

This file is generated programmatically pre-commit by `export-documentation` and contains documentation-appropriate
metadata for live beacon services.

This is used by the API3 docs site and the Beacon Explorer (tentative name).

The file has the following structure:

- `beacons`: [...]
  - `beaconId`: The Beacon ID, a unique string that identifies this data feed, eg.
    "0x7c3e9a38a16439e9b3e77bfe742f6c10004c26beabfab70fd78e3cf062ed6256"
  - `beaconName`: A human-readable name, eg. "Ticker VWAP USD/BTC"
    - This is usually the same as the source template's name.
    - This should be formatted for public consumption.
  - `beaconDescription`: A human-readable description, eg. "A ticker feed for the global volume-weighted average price
    of the BTC/USD pair"
    - This is usually the same as the source template's description.
    - This should be formatted for public consumption.
  - `apiName`: The API Name of the deployment this data feed relies on, eg. "CoinGecko".
    - This should be formatted for public consumption; pay attention to capitalisation.
  - `templateId`: The ID of the template used to execute API calls that power this data feed
  - `chains`: An array of strings representing the names of chains on which this service runs. Chain names should
    reference the utility-contracts package, eg. "ropsten"
  - Optionally:
    - "templateName": If the template name and beacon name differ, this field will be populated.
    - "templateDescription": If the template description and beacon description differ, this field will be populated.

### APIs

`/data/apis/{apiName}`

Hosts one directory per API, where the directory name is the API Name.

Hosts API integration, deployment and service-related data about a specific API. The contents of this directory should
refer to the first-party deployment, i.e., do not push your third-party deployment data here.

#### API Metadata

`/data/apis/{apiName}/apiMetadata.json`

A JSON file that contains metadata related to the API provider:

- `active`: If the latest deployment under `/data/apis/{oisTitle}/deployments` is active
- `contact`: Contact information of the API provider, specifically related to Airnode operation
- `airnode`: Airnode address
- `xpub`: Extended public key of the Airnode wallet
- `httpEndpoint`: The URL of the HTTP gateway associated with this deployment

#### OIS

`/data/apis/{apiName}/ois`

Hosts JSON files that contain OIS iterations. Each OIS must be versioned according to [semver](https://semver.org/) and
both the oisTitle and version will be used in the file name. The file will be renamed programmatically on validation of
this repository.

**The OIS title of an API is immutable.**

#### Deployments

`/data/apis/{apiName}/deployments`

- Generated by `generate-deployment-payload`, can be manually edited.

Directories that contain the files used for individual deployments. Each of these directories are named with the
deployment date as `YYYY-MM-DD`, based on when `generate-deployment-payload` was run. If more than one deployment was
done in a day, only include the latest one.

Example `secrets.env.example` and `aws.env.example` files are generated for convenience. Populated versions of these
files will be required for deployment. The populated files (which will contain secrets) should not be included in this
repository.

#### Templates

`/data/apis/{apiName}/templates`

- Initialised during creation of the boilerplate and is manually populated.
- Files can be named arbitrarily as they are renamed according to the `templateName` on `validate`.

Files containing template data and metadata. The files are named to describe what the template is for so that they are
human-browsable. The files contents are:

- `templateId`: Template ID
  - To auto-generate templateIds and set them in the template files, run `yarn derive-template-ids`
- `templateName`: A human-readable name for the template.
  - In most cases this will inform the default name of the beacon that uses this template.
  - This name will be publicly displayed and should be both appropriate and honour branding capitalisation.
- `templateDescription`: As above, but a description
  - In most cases this will inform the default description of the beacon that uses this template.
  - This text will be publicly displayed; please take care.
- `endpointId`: Endpoint ID (must match one from the target Airnode's `config.json`).
- `templateParameters`: The Airnode ABI-encoded parameters.
- `decodedTemplateParameters`: `templateParameters` decoded to be human-readable for convenience, not to be used in
  production.

#### Beacons

`/data/apis/{apiName}/beacons`

- Initialised during creation of the boilerplate and is manually populated.
- Files can be named arbitrarily as they are renamed according to the `beaconName` on `validate`.

Files containing subscription data and metadata:

- `beaconId`: A Beacon ID, programmatically generated on validation, eg.
  "0x168194af62ab1b621eff3be1df9646f198dcef36f9eace0474fd19d47b2e0039"
  - To auto-generate beaconIds and set them in the these files, run `yarn derive-beacon-ids`
- `beaconName`: A descriptive name, eg. "CoinGecko USD/BTC"
  - This defaults to the source template's name.
- `beaconDescription`: An extended description of the beacon, eg. "Price of BTC in USD"
  - This defaults to the source template's description.
- `airnodeAddress`: The source Airnode's address, eg. "0xA30CA71Ba54E83127214D3271aEA8F5D6bD4Dace"
- `templateId`: An associated template ID, eg. "0xea30f92923ece1a97af69d450a8418db31be5a26a886540a13c09c739ba8eaaa"
- `updateConditionPercentage`: A number representing the deviation threshold percentage above which an update should
  occur, eg. 0.75 for 0.75%
  - This value will be used to generate a conditions object for services.
- `relayer`: The relayer address, eg. "0xA30CA71Ba54E83127214D3271aEA8F5D6bD4Dace"
- `sponsor`: The sponsor address, eg. "0x3C44CdDdB6a900fa2b585dd299e03d12FA4293BC"
- `requester`: The requester address, eg. "0x9fE46736679d2D9a65F0992F2272dE9f3c7fa6e0"
- `fulfillFunctionId`: The bytes4 fulfilment function ID, eg. "0x206b48f4"
- `chains`: [...] Chains that the beacon is currently operational on
  - `name`: Name of the chain (must match a chain with deployed contracts from the repository noted above), eg.
    "ropsten"
  - `topUpWallets`: [...] An array of addresses to monitor and keep topped-up
    - `walletType`: The wallet type, either 'API3' or 'Provider'
    - `address`: The target address, eg. "0x3C44CdDdB6a900fa2b585dd299e03d12FA4293BC"
- `signedKeeperConditions`:
  - `deviationFactorThreshold`: The factor by which to multiply the provider's deviation threshold to calculate API3's
    `_conditionParameters`
  - `ttlMinutes`: The number of minutes that need to have elapsed since the on-chain value exceeded API3's
    updateCondition
